The error of one moment becomes the sorrow of a whole life.	
Tell me and I'll forget; show me and I may remember; involve me and I'll understand.	
Outside noisy, inside empty.	
There are never enough blessings, but there are too many troubles.	
He who strikes the first blow admits he's lost the argument.	
Teachers open the door. You enter by yourself.	
Don't open a shop unless you like to smile.	
Just as tall trees are known by their shadows, so are good men known by their enemies.	
Be not afraid of growing slowly, be afraid only of standing still.	
To attract good fortune, spend a new coin on an old friend, share an old pleasure with a new friend, and lift up the heart of a true friend by writing his name on the wings of a dragon.	
Character can be revealed by time.	
After three days without reading, talk becomes flavorless.	
He who asks is a fool for five minutes, but he who does not ask remains a fool forever.	
If heaven made him, earth can find some use for him.	
He who depends on himself will attain the greatest happiness.	
If you are planning for a year, sow rice; if you are planning for a decade, plant trees; if you are planning for a lifetime, educate people.	
Not until just before dawn do people sleep best; not until people get old do they become wise.	
To forget one's ancestor's is to be a brook without a source, a tree without root.	
Make happy those who are near, and those who are far will come.	
To know the road ahead, ask those coming back.	
When you drink the water, remember the spring.	
Govern a family as you would cook a small fish - very gently.	
If there is light in the soul; There will be beauty in the person. If there is beauty in the person; There will be harmony in the house. If there is harmony in the house; There will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation; There will be peace in the world.	
If you don't want anyone to know it, don't do it.	
A great fortune depends on luck, a small one on diligence.	
If you don't want anyone to know it, don't do it.	
A man should choose a friend who is better than himself. There are plenty of acquaintances in the world; but very few real friends.	
Be not disturbed at being misunderstood; be disturbed rather at not being understanding.	
I dreamed a thousand new paths. . . I woke and walked my old one.	
Study without reflection is a waste of time; reflection without study is dangerous.	
A wise man makes his own decisions, an ignorant man follows public opinion.	
The error of one moment becomes the sorrow of a whole life.	
Great souls have wills; feeble ones have only wishes.	
When we have nothing to worry about we are not doing much, and not doing much supplies us with plenty of future worries.	
The beginning of wisdom is to call things by their right names.	
The gem cannot be polished without friction, nor man perfected without trials.	
It is the beautiful bird which gets caged.	
If you walk on snow you cannot hide your footprints.	
A man who has committed a mistake and doesn't correct it is committing another mistake.	
A people without faith in themselves cannot survive.	
Failure is not falling down but refusing to get up.	
When your horse is on the brink of a precipice it is too late to pull the reins.	
Everything has its beauty but not everyone sees it.	
Fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, shame on me.	
They who know the truth are not equal to those who love it, and they who love it are not equal to those who find pleasure in it.	
A man must insult himself before others will.	
Do not anxiously hope for that which is not yet come; do not vainly regret what is already past.	
Virtue cannot live in solitude; neighbors are sure to grow up around it.	
Words are the voice of the heart.	
When the ear will not listen, the heart escapes sorrow.	
Vegetables of one's own raising are not relished --- those from other's gardens are the best.	
Go home and make a net if you desire to get fishes.	
The journey of a thousand miles starts with a single step.	
When anger arises, think of the consequences.	
One's good deeds are only known at home; one's bad deeds far away.	
A vacant mind is open to all suggestions as a hollow building echoes all sounds.	
It takes little effort to watch a man carry a load.	
Much wealth will not come if a little does not go.	
It is only when the cold season comes that we know the pine and cypress to be evergreens.	
Thatch your roof before rainy weather; dig your well before you become parched with thirst.	
A needle is sharp only at one end.	
Look for a thing till you find it and you'll not lose your labor.	
He who sacrifices his conscience to ambition burns a picture to obtain the ashes.	
Rotten wood cannot be carved.	
Not the cry, but the flight of the wild duck, leads the flock to fly and follow.	
It is better to light a single candle than to curse the darkness.	
He who rides a tiger is afraid to dismount.	
A man's faults all conform to his type of mind. Observe his faults and you may know his virtues.	
The fire you kindle for your enemy often burns yourself more than them.	
A diamond with a flaw is preferable to a common stone with none.	
Those who know when they have enough are rich.	
If you want happiness for an hour – take a nap. If you want happiness for a day – go fishing. If you want happiness for a month – get married. If you want happiness for a year – inherit a fortune. If you want happiness for a lifetime – help someone else.	
When you drink the water, remember the spring	
Keep your broken arm inside your sleeve	
He who strikes the first blow admits he's lost the argument	
Do not remove a fly from your friend's forehead with a hatchet	
If you don't want anyone to know, don't do it	
An ant may well destroy a whole dam	
Don't use a cannon to kill a mosquito	
Dismantle the bridge shortly after crossing it	
Dream different dreams while on the same bed	
Do not employ handsome servants	
Crows everywhere are equally black	
To believe in one's dreams is to spend all of one's life asleep	
He who treads softly goes far	
Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime	
A wise man makes his own decisions, an ignorant man follows the public opinion	
Learning is a treasure that will follow its owner everywhere	
A hundred men may make an encampment, but it takes a woman to make a home	
A truly great man never puts away the simplicity of a child	
One step at a time is good walking	
To be uncertain is to be uncomfortable, but to be certain is to be ridiculous	
Have a mouth as sharp as a dagger but a heart as soft as tofu	
Once on a tiger's back, it is hard to alight	
Shed no tears until seeing the coffin	
Waiting for a rabbit to hit upon a tree and be killed in order to catch it	
Only when all contribute their firewood can they build up a strong fire	