Wherever God erects a house of prayer, the Devil always builds a chapel there: and 'twill be found, upon examination, the latter has the largest congregation.
Whatever advice you give, be short.
Action taken to put something right is often more unpleasant or damaging than the original problem.
Be serious in what you do
If there is something [quid for aliquid] you do (well), carry on, If you do something, do it well
Somebody who has a very wide range of abilities or skills usually does not excel at any of them.
For if absurdity be the subject of laughter, doubt you not but great boldness is seldom without some absurdity.
Those who act boldly or courageously are most likely to succeed.
It is every man's own fault if he does not take such advice as will be sure to lead him right.
If you are sufficiently determined to achieve something, then you will find a way of doing so.
Seize the day.
Apart from that, I conclude that Carthage must be destroyed
Hope is itself a species of happiness, and, perhaps, the chief happiness which this world affords.
There's no arguing about tastes and colors.
 When in trouble first of all every one himself should do his best to improve his condition.
 The best way to conquer or control a group of people is by encouraging them to fight among themselves rather than allowing them to unite in opposition to the ruling authority.
 Things that you must not have or do are always the most desirable.
Daughters may look and behave like their mothers. This is due to inheritance and the example observed closely and daily.
 Everything has an underlying reason.
All contributions, however small, are of use.
And knowledge itself, is power
Nothing comes from nothing
If you would have any thing done for you, you must give something, for people will not serve you for nothing.
The exception confirms the rule in cases not excepted
The exception proves the rule .
 People who know they have done wrong reveal their guilt by the things they say or the way they interpret what other people say.
 Drastic action is called for – and justified – when you find yourself in a particularly difficult situation.
A man's enemies have no power to harm him, if he is true to himself and loyal to God.
Men believe what they want to. 
 Do not trust gifts or favors if they come from an enemy.
Don't yield to that alluring witch, laziness, or else be prepared to surrender all that you have won in your better moments.
 If you are unsure what to do, it is best to do nothing at all.
When in doubt, in favour of the accused.
In necessary things unity, in doubtful things liberty, in all things charity .
 Children are bound to cause their parents anxiety, and may or may not also bring them joy.
Every man I meet is in some way my superior; and in that I can learn of him.
As to the quantity of absolute truth in a thought: it seems to me the more comprehensive and unobjectionable a thought becomes, the more clumsy and unexciting it gets. I like half-truths of a certain kind — they are interesting and they stimulate.
Be strong, young man! Through this way one gets to the stars. 
Never attribute to malice that which is adequately explained by stupidity.
It is as impossible that a system radically erroneous, once commenced, should end well, as it is that a mathematical problem, commenced wrong, should come out right.
Necessity is the mother of invention 
One owes the greatest possible care for the child 
The doctor cares [for his patient], nature heals [him]. or Doctor cures, nature saves”
Death is a friend of ours; and he that is not ready to entertain him is not at home.
 Liars must remember the untruths they have told, to avoid contradicting themselves at some later date.
There is nothing man will not attempt when great enterprises hold out the promise of great rewards.
Minds once cowed are prone to superstition.
Woman is man's ruin.
 Much ado about nothing.
Nothing too much, moderation in all thing 
Work and play they're never okay to mix.
Jimmy Eat World taken from their song Work.
An uneducated man cannot judge of the attainments of the learned.
No one is a judge in his own case.
You know not what night-fall may bring.
It [money] doesn't smell
It is not because things are difficult that we do not dare, but because we do not dare, things are difficult.
We learn not for school but for life.
Education, therefore, is a process of living and not a preparation for future living.
It will not always be summer. 
 In private animosities and verbal contentions, where angry passions are apt to rise, and irritating, if not profane expressions are often made use of, as we sometimes see to be the case, not only among neighbors, but in families, between husbands and wives, or parents and children, or the children themselves and other members of the household, - the least said, the better in general. By multiplying words, cases often grow worse instead of better.
All things (in rome) have their price. Original omnia Romae cum pretio
No thoroughly occupied man was ever yet very miserable.
Friendship ... flourishes not so much by kindnesses as by sincerity.
Punishment comes limping.
 Hesitation or procastination may lead to trouble or disaster.
A beard doesn't make a philosopher. 
The educated don't get that way by memorizing facts; they get that way by respecting them.
 Small organizations or insignificant people tend to be swallowed up or destroyed by those that are greater and more powerful.
After dinner, rest a while, after supper walk a mile.
Better late then never 
New brooms sweep clean.
The people are fashioned according to the example of their kings; and edicts are of less power than the life of the ruler.
Whom the gods love dies young while he is full of health, perception and judgement.”
Those who have ears to hear, hear!
 Take advantage of an opportunity when it presents itself, even if you do not want or need it at the time, because it may no longer be available when you do.
He who does not go forward, loses ground. or He who does not accomplish anything, is a failure/has shortcomings.”
He who speaks for the innocent is eloquent enough.
He who transplanted still sustains.
Whatever is said in Latin seems profound.
Don't move settled things 
Who will watch the watchers themselves? or Who will guard the guardians themselves?
Repetition is useful, or Repeating things helps”.
Ideally, our rules should be formed in such a fashion that an ordinary helpful kind thoughtful person doesn't really even need to know the rules. You just get to work, do something fun, and nobody hassles you as long as you are being thoughtful and kind.
Alt. Translation A Wise Man Is Limited By The Stars
 Nobody can fully understand another person's hardship or suffering.
Greatness from Small Beginnings.
During war, laws are silent. 
Every man loves well what is like to himself.
If you want peace, prepare for war.
If you want peace, prepare justice.
Laws are silent in times of war
A golden bit does not make the horse any better.
More law, less justice. 
Works are harder than words.
Easier said than done.
Boys are boys and boys will act like boys.
Cobbler, no further than the sandal!
For those who come late, only the bones.
We should not plan and then try to make circumstances fit those plans. Instead we should make plans fit the circumstances.
Save time!
 Meanwhile the irreplaceable time flees
Time flees, eternity dwells.
Time flees, love stays
The cause of fear is ignorance. 
Three makes a company.
Take up and read; take up and read! 
It also concerns you when the nearest wall is burning.
Where one feels good, there is one's country.
Where there is harmony, there is victory.
Where there is doubt, there is freedom. legal, meaning when in doubt the prisoner has to be freed.
Where there's smoke, there's fire.
Who keeps company with wolves, will learn to howl.
 Spread your risks or investments so that if one enterprise fails you will not lose everything.
One swallow doesn't make spring
Experience is the best teacher.
Be amiable, then you'll be loved.
Even if the powers are missing, the will deserves praise
You'll reap what you sow.
That your sleeping hour be peaceful, let your dining hour be brief!
Beautiful women and wine are sweet venom.
Water shapes its course according to the nature of the ground over which it flows. Let your methods be regulated by the infinite variety of circumstances.
Children observe daily and — in their behaviour — often follow the example of their parents.
It is wiser to withdraw from a situation that you cannot win than to go on fighting and lose – by a strategic retreat you can return to the battle or argument with renewed energy at a later date.

If others are allowed to, that does not mean you are. 
Don't you know, my son, with how little wisdom the world is governed?
Someone in all, is nothing in one.
Yet it comes from urine.
Authority, not truth, makes law.
Fortune favors the brave.
Fortune favors the bold.
Hear, see, be silent, if you wish to live (in peace).
I'll either find a way or make one.
English fear the man of one book.
The corruption of the best is the worst of all.
The greater the degeneration of the republic, the more of its laws.
There is no disputing about tastes.
Celebrate the day when it is evening.
Gods help those who do.
The rich man is the one who thinks to himself that nothing was lacking.
Divide and govern [or conquer]. 
We learn by teaching.
Lead by Example.
Sweet is the apple when the keeper is away.
If you want to beat a dog you will easily find a stick.
When the belly is full, the head is pleased.
While we live, let us live!
While there is life, there is hope.
Make haste slowly.
Trust no one.
The end hangs on the beginning.
Fortune favors the brave.
History is the tutor of life.”
What's to me today, tomorrow to you.”
Man proposes but God disposes.
Honor follows the fleeing.
Gifts of enemies are no gifts.
Ignorance of the law is no excuse.
To rule yourself is the ultimate power.
When in doubt, abstain.
Hasty judgments are criminal.
No one should be the judge in his own trial.
There is truth in vine.
Idiomatic and literal There is no little enemy.
Literal The wise man must fear a humble enemy.
Children bring with them countless cares.
Truth is hidden, but nothing is more beautiful than the truth”
You are lending light to the sun.
Weeds grow fast.”
Bad beginnings lead to bad results.
It is a bad plan that cannot be changed.”
There is, to be sure, no evil without something good.”
One hand washes the other.”
Remember that you are going to die.
It is a wretched fate which is absent enemies.
The world desires to be deceived; therefore it is.
Expect nothing from friends, do what you can do yourself.
We receive nothing with so much reluctance as instruction.
It is easy to do harm, difficult to do good.
We are not born for ourselves alone”
A fool does not need any bells.
No punishment without a law.”
No rule without exception.”
Eyes are the index of the mind.
He who applies himself to all things, knows all things.
Medicine is the noblest of all arts.
Rest is the best medicine.
Agreements must be honoured.”
A prompt refusal has in part the grace of a favour granted.
Peace is better than the most just war.”
There's danger in delay.
Further Beyond”, Spanish Motto.
The large fishes eats the small ones.
Forewarned (is) forearmed”
Milk today, for what you are aiming for is fleeing.
Provided common, commonly true.
Like king, like people.
What pay, such work.
How well you live makes a difference, not how long.
As much as needed, enough.
Whom the gods hated, they made them pedagogues”
Translation:: Who watches the watchmen?
He who sleeps does not sin”
He who is not ready today, will be less so tomorrow.
He who dares wins.
He who has much desires more.
(One) who asks, doesn't err.”
Who writes, reads twice.”
Who is silent, when he ought to and might have spoken, is seen to agree.”
He who wishes to give little shouldn't ask for much.”
Whatever you do, may you do it prudently, and look to the end!
Whatever you learn, you learn it for yourself.”
What is asserted gratuitously may be denied gratuitously.
That which harms, often teaches”
Stick to the subject and the words will follow. 
Repetition is the mother of study.
Rome wasn't built in a day.
The well-being of the patient is the most important law.
Dare to be wise.
A wise (man) will rule (or possibly, be ruled by) the stars.
A wise man takes everything he owns with himself.
Wisdom is power.
Knowledge has no enemies but the ignorant.
Senators are good men, however Senate is a malicious animal
The same words conceal and declare the thoughts of men.
A serpent, if it does not devour a serpent, does not become a dragon.
If you are in Rome, live in the Roman way, if you are somewhere else, live like there.
To each its own is beautiful.
Times should be adapted to.
Do not commit all to one boat.
For one reprimand, a hundred corrections.
Words instruct, illustrations lead.
Truth creates hatred. 
The truth will set you free.
Time discloses the truth.
Truth conquers all.
It is to live twice to be able to enjoy the retrospect of your past life.
Virtue survives the grave.
Where god has a church the devil will have his chapel.
Conceal not the truth from thy physician and lawyer.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Deep calls to deep.
Sparing is the first gaining.
Gluttony kills more than the sword.
The remedy is often worse than the disease; Burn not your house to rid it of the mouse.
As long as there is life there is hope.
Crooked logs make straight fires.
Bloom where you are planted.
Jack of all trades, master of none; Jack of all trades begs bread on Sundays.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
Better fed than taught.
Fortune favours the bold.
Those who wish to live in peace, must hear, see, and say nothing.
Where there's a will, there's a way.
Many kiss the hand they wish to cut off.
A disease known is half cured.
He gives twice, who gives in a trice.
Short prayers reach heaven.
Gray hairs are honorable.
Virtue which parleys is near a surrender.
Misfortune comes on horseback and goes away on foot.
Early ripe, early rotten.
Second thoughts are best; We shall lose nothing by waiting.
He that will not be counseled cannot be helped.
Old habits die hard.
Old habits die hard.
Pride comes before fall.
Though thou hast ever so many counsellors, yet do not forsake the counsel of thy own soul.
He that lives on hope dances without music.
Fake it till you make it.
When the head is sick, the whole body is sick.
He wrongfully blames the sea who suffers shipwreck twice.
Fretting cares make grey hairs.
Nature is beyond all teaching.
There is no accounting for taste.
Whom God will destroy, he first make mad.
True love never grows old.
God helps them that help themselves.
No one gets rich quickly if he is honest.
Wealth rarely brings happiness.
Divide and conquer.
Good riding at two anchors, men have told, for if the one fails, the other may hold.
Forbidden fruit is sweetest.
The sweetest flesh is near the bones.
Full stomach, contented heart.
Like mother, like daughter.
Every why has a wherefore.
Whatever measure you deal out to others will be dealt back to you.
Every little helps.
Good laws have sprung from bad customs.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
Desperate diseases must have desperate remedies.
While the grass grows the steed starves.
No need of words, trust deeds.
More speed less haste.
Confidence begets confidence.
Such a beginning, such an end.
All that is fair must fade.
Honesty is the best policy.
Appearances deceive.
The dogs bark but the caravan passes on.
Forgive and forget.
The door swings both ways; What goes around comes around.
Each dog has his day.
Follow glory and it will flee, flee glory and it will follow thee.
Good blood always shows itself.
Beware of Greeks bearing gifts.
He complains wrongfully at the sea that suffer shipwreck twice.
A good anvil does not fear the hammer.
When in doubt, leave it out.
Hasty judgment leads to repentance.
The covetous man is good to none and worst to himself.
No one can be the judge in his own case.
A fool is ever laughing.
In wine there is truth.
Children are uncertain comforts but certain cares.
They who would be young when they are old must be old when they are young.
Don't go between the tree and the bark.
”A fool may give a wise man counsel.”
Envy is its own torturer.
Example is better than precept.
A problem shared is a problem halved.
Shame take him that shame thinketh.
A bad beginning makes a bad ending.
Every cloud has its silver lining.
A good name is the best of all treasures.
A liar should have a good memory.
His own desire leads every man.
Translation and Proffered service stinks.
If you have no enemies it is a sign that fortune has forgotten you; People throw stones only at trees with fruit on them.
Translation and Great cry and little wool.
The world wants to be taken in.
Beggars can’t be choosers.
For what thou canst do thyself, rely not on another.
A blind man should not judge of colours.
Who has not served cannot command.
Advice most needed is the least heeded.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
Take counsel of one's pillow.
Do not judge others by your own yardstick.
Drumming is not the way to catch a hare.
A tongue of a fool carves a piece of his heart to all that sit near him.
Least said, soonest mended.
No book was so bad, but some good might be got out of it.
When the pig is proffered, hold up the poke.
Take heed of enemies reconciled and of meat twice boiled.
The eye looks but it is the mind that sees.
All is fish that comes to net.
Grey hairs are honorable.
Poets are born, but orators are trained.
Good swimmers are often drowned.
Idle hands are the devils playthings.
Punishment is lame, but it comes.
Delays are dangerous.
One today is worth two tomorrows.
Prevention is better than cure.
Forewarned, forearmed.
Common fame is often to blame.
You get what you pay for.
Nature gave us two ears and one mouth.
He that will not when he may, when he will he may have nay.
Love me, love my dog.
Don't have too many irons in the fire.
He who does not advance goes backwards.
First come, first served.
The only stupid question is the one not asked.
He that steals an egg will steal an ox.
Whatever you do, act wisely, and consider the end.
What does not kill you makes you stronger.
Opportunity knocks only once.
A good mind possess a kingdom.
You can't take it with you.
Men talk only to conceal the mind.
Men leap over where the hedge is lower.
If fortune favours, beware of being exalted; if fortune thunders, beware of being overwhelmed.
When in Rome, do as the Romans.
No one knows where the shoe pinches, but he who wears it.
Like will to like.
Give neither salt nor counsel till you are asked for it.
Every man thinks his own geese swans.
Boys will be boys.
The bird loves her own nest.
Take things as you find them.
Time and tide waits for none.
What goes around comes around.
Don't put all your eggs in the same basket.
What you reap is what you sow.
Variety is the spice of life.
Empty vessels make the greatest sound.
It is not the hen that cackles the most that lay the most eggs.
Go with the flow.
Paper is forbearing.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
Persevere and never fear.
Look before you leap, for snakes among sweet flowers do creep.
He who fights and runs away may live to fight another day.
 Don't celebrate until you are 100% sure there is a reason to do so.; Don't count your chickens before they're hatched.
 When in trouble first of all every one himself should do his best to improve his condition.
 Dreams or expectations may be realized too late.
 The outcome of things depends on how they start.
Nothing lasts forever.
 Being honest or telling the truth is always the wisest course of action.
 Things often don't turn out as you have planned.
 A quick evaluation is a terrible evaluation.
 Alcohol consumed removes the inhibition against telling the truth that occasionally one would like to keep secret.
 Do not interfere when two parts are having an argument.
 If you are mad, count to twenty.
 Don't expect anyone to change his ways by scolding him.
 Each one of us carries a responsibility for the whole world.
 You might typically get something good out of an overall faulty book, especially a non fictional one, such as sound advice or anecdotes to tell others.
 Your former enemies might cunningly take revenge on you just out of spite.; Trust not a reconciled enemy more than an open foe.
 Some things can be improved by training, others require innate talent.
 Beware of letting your competence lead you into overconfidence.
 Precaution is infinitely better than remedial measures.
 A general disrepute is often true.
 Newcomers are the most ambitious.
 If you love someone, you will virtually like everything about him.
 Unpleasant experiences will make you wiser.
 Always do things in a way that requires the absolut least amount of labor.
 An ugly thing will remain ugly even if its appeareance is taken care of.
 Good acts quite often reward themselves. Conversely, bad acts quite often punish themselves.
 Where there are the signs of something, something is there.
 You will become like the people you surround yourself with.
 A solitary event is no indication that a major change is taking place.
