The necessity teaches a naked woman how to spin.
There seldom is a single wave.
A bad rower blames the oar.
Bare is the back of a brotherless man.
A burnt child keeps away from fire.
Mild physician - putrid wounds.
You will reach your destination even though you travel slowly.
Only dead fish follow the stream.
It is darkest before dawn.
Alone is strong (You can accomplish a lot on your own).
No trees grow to the sky (Nothing lasts forever).
The later in the evening, the more beautiful the people.
There is no bad weather, only bad clothing.
What is hidden in snow, is revealed at thaw.
A fair wind at our back is best.
Too clean has no taste.
One should listen when an old dog barks.
Old love does not corrode.
Merely book makes none wise.
Boatless man is tied to the land.
The maniacs have many funny hours that the sane guy does not have.
One must howl with the wolves one is among.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
You have to learn to crawl before you can walk.
If you cannot bite, never show your teeth.
If you want to beat a dog you will easily find a stick.
Time runs like the river current.
A farm of your own is better, even if small. Everyone’s someone at home. Though he has two goats and a coarsely roofed house, that is better than begging.
Where you recognise evil, speak out against it, and give no truces to your enemies.
Thou should never sleep in the arms of a sorceress, lest she lock thy limbs.
From his weapons on the open road, no man should step one pace away.
Praise day at even, a wife when dead, a weapon when tried, a maid when married, ice when ’tis crossed, and ale when ’tis drunk.
Even three words of quarrelling you shouldn’t have with an inferior.
The foolish man thinks he will live forever if he keeps away from fighting; but old age won’t grant him a truce, even if the spears do.
Cattle die, kinsmen die; the self must also die. I know one thing which never dies: the reputation of each dead man.
About his intelligence no man should be boastful, rather cautious of mind; when a wise and silent man comes to a homestead blame seldom befalls the wary; for no more dependable friend can a man every get than a store of common sense.
The cowardly man thinks he’ll live for ever, if he keeps away from fighting; but old age won’t grant him a truce even is spears spare him.
The unwise man is awake all night, and ponders everything over; when morning comes he is weary in mind, and all is a burden as ever.
A guest must depart again on his way, nor stay in the same place ever; if he bide too long on another’s bench the loved one soon becomes loathed.
Praise day at even, a wife when dead, a weapon when tried, a maid when married, ice when ’tis crossed, and ale when ’tis drunk.
Never reproach another for his love: it happens often enough that beauty ensnares with desire the wise while the foolish remain unmoved.
Affection is mutual when men can open all their heart to each other: he whose words are always fair is untrue and not to be trusted.
Let none put faith in the first sown fruit nor yet in his son too soon; whim rules the child, and weather the field, each is open to chance.
If aware that another is wicked, say so: make no truce or treaty with foes.
All the doorways, before one enters, should be looked around, should be spied out; it can’t be known for certain where enemies are sitting in the hall ahead.