Artisanal pots boil (things) more thickly
Ahal by dyadya, na sebya glyadya.
It is easier for the mare when a woman is off the cart...
Granny (told fortunes and) said two things (— it will either rain or snow; it either will or will not).
Trouble never comes alone.
Without a cat, mice feel free.
Without effort, you can't  even  pull a fish out of the pond.
Take care of clothes from new, take care of  your  honor from when  you are  young.
God keeps those safe who keep themselves safe.
If all of us  take hold of  it  together, it won't feel heavy.
Note: Mertvago translates this as "Good will and welcome are the best cheer," but the literal definition is closer to the original translation.
Your  elbow is close, yet  you  can't bite it.
God gave, God took back.
God likes trinity.
A chatterbox is a treasure for a spy.
For a big ship, a big voyage.
There'll be a holiday in our street too.
Paper will endure anything.
Paper has no soul - you can put anything on it."
There was — there wasn't.
Blame it on the Grey (folk name of wolf), it'll bear anything.
With your mouth it would be good to drink mead (sweet alcoholic beverage made out of fermented honey).
Visiting is good, but home is better.
When it's raining one won't  fix the  roof  of  the cottage, and when it's clear and sunny the roof isn't leaking.
Live for a century — learn for a century.
Big in body, but small in deeds.
The bird is known by its flight.
The eye can see it, but the tooth can't bite it.
Wine causes guilt.
There is no truth in feet.
Wolf feeds on his feet.
Wolf in sheep's pelt.
Just  because one fears wolves, is one not to go into the woods?
The raven won't peck out the eye of  another  raven.
That's where the dog is buried
Time  makes the  best healer.
No family has no ugly member.
All is well that ends well.
Every sandpiper praises his own swamp.
Every vegetable has its time.
Every cricket must know its hearth
In a crush, yet without resentment.
(Do not come) to Tula with your own samovar.
No-one goes to another monastery with their own charter.
In another person's eye one can notice  even  a mote, but in one's own, cannot see  even  a log.
It will snap where it is thinnest.
It worked on paper, but  we've  forgotten about ravines (and we'll have to march  them ).
The eyes are (might be) afraid, but the hands are doing  the job  .
They say they milk chickens.
Hunger is not  your  aunt (,  it  will not bring you a pie).
One doesn't shear naked sheep.
Poor people are crafty.
Only  grave will cure the hunchback.
Unless thunder strikes, a man won't cross himself.
A goose is not a pig's friend.
Give  him  a fingernail,  he  will ask for the forearm.
Don't look at the teeth of a horse you've been given.
If given - take it; if beaten - run away.
Two deaths will not happen,  but  one is inevitable.
To divide the pelt of a bear not yet killed.
Work is afraid of a skilled worker.
Good brotherhood is the best wealth.
Even a cat appreciates kind word s .
Debt is beautiful  only  after  it is  repaid.
When you are  at home, even the walls help  you .
A spring egg is dear at the Easter day.
Friendship is friendship but service is service.
Friendship is friendship, but  keep our  tobacco (money) apart.
You get to really  know  your  friend when trouble  comes .
There is no law written for fools ( if it is written it's not read, if it is read it's not understood, if it is understood, in the wrong way).
If  the fool ties  a knot , even a clever person can't untie it.
Fools are not sown or reaped, they appear by themselves.
If you take a day trip, take a week's supply of bread.
The?/we  Ate and drank and make merry. Then  they/we  counted and shed tears.
If and when mushrooms (beans) grew in the mouth(, that would have been not mouth but kitchen garden).
If only youth would know, if only old age were able.
Living  your  life is not like crossing a meadow.
Forbidden fruit is sweet.
Law is like the shaft of a cart, it points wherever you turn it.
Alt. The law is like a shaft, no matter the way you turn it, you're shafted.
If you  make a fool pray to God, he will hurt (both his) forehead (and other people's toes).
What  you  go looking for,  you  will find.
Whatever  we, they  fought for is what  we, they  impaled  ourselves, themselves  upon.
I sell it for what I bought it (, if you don't like it, don't listen, but don't hamper  my  lying/telling).
The cat knows whose meat it has eaten.
The wolves are sated, and the sheep are intact.
They  choose lesser of two evils.
From fire to flame.
You  cannot throw a word out of a song.
Extinguish the spark before the  the house is on  fire, deflect the trouble before  its  strike.
You can bend an alder-tree, if you do it gradually.
Look for wind in a field.
Even one matters in the battlefield.
How  echo  is prompted, it will bounce back.
One can't spoil porridge with butter.
They use a wedge to knock out a wedge.
If the claw is stuck, the whole bird is lost.
Beware of the goat from its front side, of the horse - from its back side, and the evil man - from any side.
A horse has four legs, but still stumbles.
Don't swap horses when crossing the stream.
A kopeck saves the rouble (, and the rouble guards your head).
Where  goes  a horse with  its  hoof, there  goes  a crayfish with  its  pincer.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Smeshnoi ruski eto krytoi ruski A funny russian is a cool russian Perestroika, as it wasn't believed at the time that they will last)
The affectionate calf sucks  udders of  two cows.
You cannot break a wall with your forehead.
One shouldn't beat the one who fell.
When wood is chopped, woodchips will fly.
Beginning is the big trouble.
A spoonful of tar spoils a barrel of honey.
It's better to see once than hear a hundred times.
Better late than never.
love's evil, you'll love even a goat.
Husband  travels to the city of  Tver - wife goes out the door
He is  brave  when fighting  against sheep, and  when fighting  against a brave man  he's  a sheep himself.
He  makes the bed soft, yet  it's  hard to sleep  on .
Don't look for trouble - trouble will find you by itself.
Don't make an elephant out of a fly.
On a fishing lull, even a crayfish is fish  , at the lack of people even a lazybones is a man .
Hope for God, but do not be reliant.
On the belly there is silk, but in the belly - just a click.
There are no friends in tastes and colours.
A thief's hat burns.
You cannot please everybody.
Any wise man has enough of simplicity.
If you called yourself a milk-mushroom — get into the basket!
There is no example for an unjust court.
Prey runs into a trapper.
With company, even death loses its sting.
Translations: The pike in the sea is there to make the crucian to stay alert.
Don't open your mouth  to eat  other people's bread.
The scythe has hit a stone.
On the tongue  there's  honey, and on the heart  there's  ice.
It's  not gods  who  make pots.
Don't be afraid of the dog who barks, but be afraid of the one, who is silent and wags its tail.
I  would have had no luck, if not for misfortune.
The woman had no trouble, so she bought a piglet.
Not every day is a Shrovetide, in time it will be a Lent.
Not every glittering thing is gold.
Don't say "hop", until you jumped over
The wolf is beaten not for being grey, but for having eaten a sheep.
Don't wade into a river without knowing a ford.
Don't have a friend who always agrees with you, but have a friend who argues with you.
Translations: Not the place adorns the man, but a man adorns the place.
Don't cast beads before(in front of) pigs.
Only he who does nothing makes no mistakes.
Do not spit into a well—it may be useful to drink water.
Unless caught  stealing ,  one is  not a thief.
Don't dig a pit for somebody  to fall into ,  or  you will end up in it yourself.
Don't ask the old one, ask the experienced one.
There is no smoke without fire.
There's no bad without the good.
Not for village, not for town.
Neither fish nor meat.
A new broom sweeps in a new way.
They  wait three years for  what was  promised.
He who got burned by hot milk, blows on water.
Lambskin is not worth currying.
A single  man  in a field is not a warrior.
For every  one with a plow —  there's  seven with a spoon.
One son is not a son, two sons are half a son, three sons are a son.
One cup (of liquor) is for health, second one is for fun, third one is for nothing.
I ran from the wolf but ran into a bear.
Do not look for  further  good from good.
Honest work won't let you live in a stone palace.
Desire is worse then compulsion.
Drink (alcohol), but be an expert in your business
The first pancake is (always) a blob.
A soldier who doesn't dream of becoming a general is a bad one.
Even the sword doesn't cut the head of the one who confesses.
Repetition is the mother of learning.
The wolf spared the mare, left a tail and mane.
Wait and see.
One meets/greets  people  by their clothes, and says farewell by their mind.
Seat the pig at the table — she'll put  her  legs on the table.
They don't swing fists when the fight is over.
If you rush things, you'll only make others laugh.
Habit is second nature.
Simplicity is worse than thievery (crime).
A spooked crow is afraid of a bush (a carriage  wheel's  squeak/its own shadow).
For a drunk, the sea is knee-deep (, and a puddle ear-deep).
Work is not a wolf, it's not going away to the forest.
Each time it's different.
Hands wash each other , a thief covers another thief .
Fish seek a deep place, men seek a better place.
A fisherman can tell another fisherman from afar.
To live with wolves, you have to howl like a wolf.
One's  own burden doesn't encumber.
One's  own shirt  is  closer to the body.
A holy place is never empty.
Out of sight, out of heart.
Grey hair into beard, devil into rib.
Seven  people  don't wait for one.
Seven troubles - one responce.
Seven versts# to heaven, and all the way through the forest.
Measure seven times, cut once.
Seven axes lie together, two distaffs apart
You'll  learn  (in a bad way)  from those  you  hang out with.
However  much/ well  you feed the wolf, he still looks at the woods.
Translations: A tale is told quickly, but the job is done slowly.
Translations: Tambourines are good when they are behind mountains (, and when they come to us, they become just like a basket)
Words are silver, silence is gold.
A rumour fills the Earth.
One thread from  everyone in  the world —  makes a  shirt for  the  naked.
The nightingale can't be fed by fables.
After taking off the head one doesn't (shouldn't) grieve over the hair.
A dog on hay will neither eat it himself, nor let others eat it.
A magpie brought it on its tail.
Old age is no fun.
An old friend is better than two new ones.
You can't escape your fate  even  with a horse.
The sated one doesn't understand the hungry one: for one the soup is too thin, for the other - the pearls are too small.
It's good there, where we are not.
I'd like to  drink honey with your lips.
Patience and work will fray through anything.
Put up with it cossack, and you'll be an ataman.
Ride slower —  you'll  get further.
While  he  was sinking,  he  promised  me  an axe  if I save him , but when pulled  ashore ,  he  begrudged even an axe handle.
A job feeds a man, laziness spoils him.
You get on with business, though he  keeps telling you  about a white goat.
A loss is a gain for the mind.
A woman's hair is long, and her mind short.
Fear has big eyes.
The agreement(contract) costs more than money.
Steep hills exhausted Sivka (ash-grey horse).
Translations: If you cut  it , you won't get it back.
The snail is coming, who knows when it arrives.
A clever head, but given to foolishness.
A clever speech (speaker) is pleasant to listen to.
Seven nannies make a kid not looked after.
Moustaches are respected, and beards worn even by goats.
Complacent fool harms worse than enemy.
A fool is not a kinsman.
Truth is spoken from the toddler's mouth; From the mouth of babes
Fear has large eyes.
A drowning man grabs even a straw.
Morning is wiser than the evening.
Studying is light; not studying is darkness.
The titmouse boasted of putting the sea on the fire..
The devil boasted of ruling the whole world, but God didn't give him power over even the pig.
Bragging is unlike mowing; it won't make your back ache.
Bread is the head of everything.
Bread doesn't go for the belly (, but the belly goes for bread)..
Translations: Eat bread and salt, cut the mother truth
Quality goods advertise themselves.
The person whose Grandma tells fortunes is happy.
Naked, but right
Although there's nothing to eat, life is fun.
You could  even chop sticks on (his) head.
Horseradish is no sweeter than radish.
A bad peace is better than a good quarrel.
Bad news doesn't rest peacefully.
One  should  count chicks in autumn.
It doesn't matter what the kid plays with as long as  he  doesn't cry.
The further into the woods, the more firewood  you'll encounter .
Fate can't be avoided.
What used to be - is  now  gone (and overgrown with grass).
Another city (town) - another temper.
What we own, we don't  safe keep  properly ; when  we  lose  it ,  we  cry.
What was written by a pen can't be erased by an axe.
What  you  plant,  you  will harvest.
What fell off the cart is  as good as  gone.
What's on sober's mind, is on drunk's tongue.
Another person's soul is  in  darkness.
I can  push others' problem away with my hands, but can't put my  own  mind to my own problem.
Another's cow can moo, yours had best stay silent.
You  cannot hide an awl in a sack.
These are just flowers; berries will come soon.
The apple falls not so far away from the apple-tree.
Your tongue will take you as far as Kiev.
My tongue is my enemy (, speaks ahead of mind).
I'm not me, and  this  horse isn't mine (, and I'm not a cabman)

